Hi, I’m LiteraryVerses, and I am honored to be the valedictorian for Teddycrest High, Class of 2013. I’d like to begin by thanking those who helped me: the school administration for organizing this event, my teachers for my education, my classmates for their friendship, and my family for their love.

So here I am, standing in front of this podium. When I was in first grade, I would definitely not have envisioned myself here. Everything changes at the blink of an eye, but my high school experience went very monotonously for me, especially the last semester of my senior year.

Yet if someone asked me to describe my entire high school experience with one word, I will say, “electrifying.” You’ll forget everything what you learned from reading Ben Franklin’s autobiography, but you’ll never forgot what you learned from flying a kite in a thunderstorm. That’s high school in a nutshell: quick, shocking, and leaves you smelling like burnt rubber. If you’re not prepared, you’re going to die, and if you’re not intelligent, you’ll do it again. Some kids, like Ben Franklin, continue to play with electricity, but most of us choose to go to college.

Have you ever asked yourselves why you must go to college? Me neither. I just want bragging rights to compensate for my incompetence. Frankly, I always thought of college as a hardcore version of high school because it’s still education, just without parental supervision. That’s one facet of college awesomeness; we ultimately learn and choose our moral obligations and civil duties. Citizens of Colorado could get a DUI for riding a horse under influence, but since 2008 they can drink on Sundays. Given these two choices, a wise man would choose to get drunk the day before his workday rather than get drunk on his sober horse on Friday night. A wiser man would tell you not to drink at all. After all, a hangover for an hour is not worth six hours of fun.

Learning our responsibilities is a daunting path that every one of us has to take when we go to college. Yet we do not need to be scared of the future ahead of us. Teddycrest High School has taught us everything we need, and we are more than prepared for the real world: repetitive test-taking, temporary memorization, and writing in cursive are just one of the many abilities that will enable us to interact with dishwashers, credit cards, and serial criminals. Through ingenious events such as Field Day, Teddycrest taught us the importance of cooperation. Teamwork is highly respected here, even though the Douglas County School Board had severed ties with Teachers’ Union as demonstrated by the lawsuit the Douglas County Federation of Teachers had filed back this February.

But developing our independent and ethical duties does not mean we should forget our family values. Family is pretty important too. Who knows, maybe one of your relatives will donate a vital organ to you if you get cancer. Then you can skip the entire process of cooking meth to finance your surgical operation. Be kind to your friends as well, assuming they have the same blood type as you. If not, get better friends, preferably chemistry teachers who know how to cook meth.

As a representative of the Class of 2013, I can confirm that we’ve seen it all. In our senior year alone we have oversaw Payton Manning in the Denver Broncos, cheered the rise of the first Hispanic pope, and survived the Apocalypse of 2012. We don’t need any more advice for the real world, since we were grew up with it, born in it, molded by it. There will be future events to come where you will have to sit in uncomfortable chairs and be bored to death by old men in academic regalia. But for now, all we have to deal with is moving on. The greatest successes in the world are determined by the perseverance of winners. We are those victors who have earned our diploma because we refused to give up while others around us did. That’s why your diploma is heavy, since it’s filled with all the souls of your classmates who didn’t graduate. So Class of 2013, congratulations. Let’s graduate!
