The greatest aspirations arrive through a gradual process rather than with epiphany and fanfare. In fact, my earliest dream was to become a prominent writer. Growing up largely eroded those fantasies, but when I return to the stories I produced long ago, I wonder what compelled me to become an author. English was my second language; my spelling and grammar were horrible, even for the standards of a second-grader. Yet my insatiable imagination churned thousands of tales over the years, and I still can’t pinpoint exactly when and why such a passion started to engulf me.

My interest in writing probably sparked from my love and appreciation for books. Captivated by the worlds crafted by Roger Lancelyn Green and Roald Dahl, I strived to create entire universes like the ones I had read about. With a writing utensil and a reservoir of creativity, I would scissor the paper into shapes and sew utopias of my design. By reconstructing myself in the midst as a character, I could achieve everything in fiction that I could not in reality: power, talents, and adventure. Maybe that’s why I wanted to be a writer –because I was not satisfied with myself.

The greatest adversity I have always faced was self-acceptance. Even when I was young, I saw myself as somewhat imperfect and lacking. In my eyes, I was nothing that I wanted to be. I desired to become a leader, an iconoclast, and a hero. There were numerous pandemics to be cured, crimes and injustices to be punished, and causes to fight for. But I was unable to perform anything up to even my lowest expectations. Of all my weaknesses, my greatest were self-doubt and uncertainty. Being too cautious and meticulous sometimes hindered my actions and abilities. Writing was one of the greatest ways to redeem myself; fantasy was a place where I didn’t need to fear failure.

One day, I realized I was not finishing my stories. Every story I began was eventually discarded for another, because endless possibilities to perfectly end a story drove me to uncertainty. Like life, my stories had innumerable potential paths. And like my protagonists, I needed to become more assertive, take more risks, and accept possible failure. Understanding this paradox ultimately changed me for the better. I forced myself to raise my hand every hour, even if I didn’t have a question. I tried to expand simple salutations to friendly conversations. I voiced my opinions aloud. I joined numerous clubs, including Speech and Debate Club. Gradually, I came to love and accept who I really am.

Nowadays, writing is less a mental redemption and more a personal fulfillment. I still attempt to write whenever I can, because this pastime, begun in my early childhood, contributes to and defines much of who I am today.
